`linea_getTransactionExclusionStatusV1` API reference (#739)
Consensys/doc.linea: docs/developers/reference/api/linea-gettransactionexclusionstatusv1.mdx

---
title: linea_getTransactionExclusionStatusV1
description: Reference content for the linea_getTransactionExclusionStatusV1 method.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# `linea_getTransactionExclusionStatusV1`

Queries a temporary database maintained by the transaction exclusion API service to check if a 
was rejected for exceeding data line limits that would prevent the prover from generating a 
proof for the block. The database is updated by a parallel write API endpoint called by the 
sequencer, edge nodes, or RPC nodes.

If the transaction was rejected, the API call will be successful and provide the reason. 

Transactions that were not rejected for this reason will return `null` as the `result`. 

:::warning

> Transactions older than 24 hours can't be checked.

Reviewer: Hmm -- I get your point, but that's not quite the wording, let me have a go!

> Transactions older than 24 hours can't be checked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transaction rejection reason can only be checked within 24 hours of transaction attempt.
```

Reviewer 2: `within 24 hours of transaction attempt` doesn't sound equivalent to the actual behavior which is something like `within 24 hours since transaction was rejected`, any better wording suggestion here?

Reviewer: I think you did it with that !

> Transactions older than 24 hours can't be checked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transactions rejection reason is available for up to 24 hours following rejection.
```

Reviewer: PTAL @jonesho

Reviewer 2: Good one

---
title: linea_getTransactionExclusionStatusV1
description: Reference content for the linea_getTransactionExclusionStatusV1 method.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# `linea_getTransactionExclusionStatusV1`

> :::info Only available on request

Reviewer 3: I'm able to execute the example request below, so does this mean it's always available using the public endpoint, but if using Infura you need to request access?

Reviewer 3: Also, should users contact Infura support or Linea support.

- `timestamp`: Time of rejection, in ISO 8601 format. 

## Example

### Request

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="cURL">
        ```bash
        curl https://rpc.linea.build \
        -X POST \
        -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
        -d '{
            "jsonrpc": "2.0",
            "id": "1",
            "method": "linea_getTransactionExclusionStatusV1",
            "params": ["0x526e56101cf39c1e717cef9cedf6fdddb42684711abda35bae51136dbb350ad7"]
        }'
        ```
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Response

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="JSON">
        ```json
        {
            "jsonrpc": "2.0",
            "id": "1",
            "result": {
                "txHash": "0x526e56101cf39c1e717cef9cedf6fdddb42684711abda35bae51136dbb350ad7",
                "from": "0x4d144d7b9c96b26361d6ac74dd1d8267edca4fc2",
                "nonce": "0x64",
                "txRejectionStage": "SEQUENCER",
                "reasonMessage": "Transaction line count for module ADD=402 is above the limit 70",
                "blockNumber": "0x3039",
                "timestamp": "2024-08-22T09:18:51Z"
            }
        }
        ```
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note

> This example is purely representative; the database only retains transaction data for seven days, so
> you will be unable to reproduce this response with the transaction in the above example.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This example is purely representative; the database retains transaction data for only seven days, so
you'll be unable to reproduce this response with the above example.
```

:::

> If the transaction was not rejected for exceeding line limits, the transaction will not be found 

Reviewer 3: Will it also return `null` if you call this method after the 7-day mark?

> If the transaction was not rejected for exceeding line limits, the transaction will not be found 
> in the database, and a `null` result is returned. For example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If a transaction was not rejected for exceeding line limits, it will not be
found in the database, and a `null` result is returned. For example:
```

---
title: linea_getTransactionExclusionStatusV1
description: Reference content for the linea_getTransactionExclusionStatusV1 method.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# `linea_getTransactionExclusionStatusV1`

> Queries a database maintained by the sequencer to check if a transaction was rejected because it 

Reviewer 2: should be `by the transaction exclusion API service`, the database was not maintained by the sequencer (which is more acts as the caller to the write method)

exceeded data line limits that would prevent the prover from generating a proof for the block.

If the transaction was rejected, the API call will be successful and provide the reason. 

> Transactions that were not rejected for this reason will return a `Rejected transaction not available` 

Reviewer 2: We'd change that to return the `result` as null

error. 

:::warning

> Transactions older than 24 hours cannot be checked.

Reviewer 2: 24 hours is TBD, @FlorianHuc @julien-marchand what's you guys suggestion here?

Reviewer 4: I would give more time; between a user reporting a problem and an actual investigation, it can take a while. I'd recommend 7 days.

Reviewer 2: So lets go with 7 days, we will change the application config in devnet and sepolia accordingly

Reviewer 2: cc @zbconsys I will ping u with the deployment PR

---
title: linea_getTransactionExclusionStatusV1
description: Reference content for the linea_getTransactionExclusionStatusV1 method.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# `linea_getTransactionExclusionStatusV1`

> Queries a database maintained by the transaction exclusion API service to check if a transaction 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Queries a temporary data store maintained by the transaction exclusion API service to check if a transaction 
```

was rejected because it exceeded data line limits that would prevent the prover from generating a 

> proof for the block. The database is updated by a parallel write API endpoint called by the 

Reviewer: IF database --> data store above, then ditto here (though temporary database also works above)

sequencer, edge nodes, or RPC nodes.

If the transaction was rejected, the API call will be successful and provide the reason. 

Transactions that were not rejected for this reason will return `null` as the `result`. 

:::warning

> Transactions older than 24 hours cannot be checked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transactions older than 24 hours can't be checked.
```

:::

## Parameters

`txHash`: [Required] The hash of the subject transaction.

## Returns

- `txHash`: The hash of the subject transaction. 
- `from`: The public address of the account that sent the transaction. 
- `nonce`: The transaction nonce, hexadecimal. 
- `txRejectionStage`: A string detailing the point at which the transaction was rejected. One of:
    - `SEQUENCER`: Rejected by the sequencer.
    - `RPC`: Rejected by an RPC node (e.g. `https://rpc.linea.build`).
    - `P2P`: Rejected by a P2P-connected node (e.g. an edge node). 
- `reasonMessage`: Explains why the transaction was rejected. 
- `blockNumber`: The block that the transaction was rejected from, in hexadecimal format. Only 
returned for transactions rejected by the sequencer. 

> - `timestamp`: Time of rejection, in ISO8601 format. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `timestamp`: Time of rejection, in ISO 8601 format. 
```

## Example

### Request

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="cURL">
        ```bash

>         curl https://rpc.linea.build \

Reviewer: no key required -- this is public RPC with no denial of service structure?

Author: good point. Following up separately and will return and amend if needed.
